
// Nodejs:-

Nodejs is a software tool developed using C, C++ and javascript which provides runtime
environment to execute javascript code outside/without the web browser.

Nodejs uses the V8 javascript engine of Google chrome web browser.

Nodejs does not supports the DOM specific concepts like there is no window and document
objects available in the nodejs.

1]if you want connect only one database then you can use connect()
   -default Connection

 mongoose.connect(URL)

2]if you want connect or use many database then you can use createConnection().
- create an instance connection
mongoose.createConnection()







// to define Schema for product Collection
- the schema is used to validate the structure of the document to be added 
in collectiob

create model to validate with the schema
const insert = mongoose.model("collectionName singular",SchemaName);

const insertDoc =new insert(doc)

insertdoc.save().then().catch() 



// console.log(window);
// console.log(document);
// console.log(document.getElementById("title"));

The nodejs supports some of the important features like file operations, database operations, etc
which are not supported in the web browser.

There are a lots of libraries(packages) in the nodejs

There are 2 categoties of packages

1. Built in packages of nodejs

2. Third party packages

  There is a tool used to install/update/uninstall the third party packages called
  NPM (Node Package Manager)



nodeje command passed to under stand DB to n 
between nodeJS  and MongoDb translator 
mmongoDb
dirver












The official MongoDB Node.js driver allows Node.js applications to connect to MongoDB and work with data. 



What is Mongoose used for?
Mongoose is an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB and Node. js. 
It manages relationships between data, provides schema validation,
and is used to translate between objects in code and the representation of those objects in MongoDB.












server create app.listen(PORT,CB(req,res)

request-In req ob is give data from (data )client to server
response - res obj is send data server to client
app.get("path",CB);

res.send() is middler to send message response to server to clinet 

app.use() used to Mounts the middleware function or mount to a specified path,the middleware function is executed when the base path matches.



Difference between app.use() and app.get() methods:

app.use() method

-It can be used for making routes modular (like exposing a set of routes from an npm module that other web applications could use).
-It is intended for binding middleware to your application. 
The path is a mount path and limits the middleware to only apply any paths requested that begin with it.
-The middleware function is executed when the base of the requested path matches path.
-It will allow for all http requests matching that route.
-Syntax: app.use([path,],callback[,callback…])	

app.get() methods:

-The method is used to expose the GET method.
-It is intended for matching and handling a specific route when requested by get http.
-Routes HTTP GET requests to the specified path with the specified callback functions.
-It will only be allowed for http GET requests to that particular route
-Syntax: app.get(path, callback)








